#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{url} 
\usepackage{slashed}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "helvet" "default"
\font_typewriter "cmtt" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "basicstyle={\ttfamily},basewidth={0.45em}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Aggregate Satisfaction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
17 April 2025
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Linas Vepštas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Diary entry, attempting to work out some ideas.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What follows will be free-form unstructured writing about aggregate satisfiabili
ty.
 It is an attempt to reconcile a number of quite common and inter-related
 ideas, and to develop a mathematical frammework for them.
 The key ingredients are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The Ising model as a motivational example.
 This pulls in assorted concepts from physics that can be elaborated on.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Link Grammar parsing, in which syntactic jigdaw pieces are assembled to
 create parses, called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

linkages
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, that are assigned a score.
 The lower the linkage cost, the more likely correct linkage is correct.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Aggregate satisfiability, in that satisfiability refers to discrete logical
 expressions, while aggregate suggests that there is some mean that indicates
 the best possible solution.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are also some other inter-related concepts, which may of may not the
 ideas to be developed here.
 These include ideas like:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Markov Logic Networks: perhaps what I intend to describe will end up being
 a Markov Logic Network.
 Or maybe not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Hopfield networks: these have commonality with regard to assorted physics
 concepts.
 Maybe they connect with what I intend to describe, and maybe they don't.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Mean field theory.
 Who knows.
 A knee-jerk reaction is that mean–field theory will describe the rsults.
 I suppose.
 Seems plausible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Ensembles.
 Of course, everything to be considered is meant to be an ensemble.
 But I won't list this as a central point.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So here we go.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Ising Model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The part of the Ising Model that is interesting here is the Hamiltonian.
 It is a sum of pair–wise interactions of nearest neighbors:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\mathcal{H}=-\sum_{ij}J_{ij}\sigma_{i}\sigma_{j}-\mu\sum_{j}h_{j}\sigma_{j}
\]

\end_inset

with 
\begin_inset Formula $\sigma_{i}$
\end_inset

 the spins.
 I won't explain this.
 I copied it from Wikipedia.
 Read that article if you don't know what this is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Link Grammar
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I won't explain what Link Grammar (LG) is, or how it works.
 Read the docs.
 However, I want to write down a a Hamiltonian for it, which is something
 that the Link Grammar docs do not do.
 It is analogous to the Ising Model Hamiltonian:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\mathcal{H}=-\sum_{ijk\cdots}C_{ijk\cdots}w_{i}w_{j}w_{k}\cdots
\]

\end_inset

The 
\begin_inset Formula $w_{i}$
\end_inset

 are the words in the sentence.
 Written out here, in order to resemble the Ising Model.
 The 
\begin_inset Formula $C_{ijk\cdots}$
\end_inset

 is meant to be the LG cost, a single real–valued floating point number,
 of the the LG disjunct 
\begin_inset Formula $ijk\cdots$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The analogy here is strained, and the notation is inadequate.
 This is a brainstorm idea, so we'll fix the problems here later.
 If the idea pans out.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
The End
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That's all for now.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
